# Roles API

Roles API is a Java SpringBoot microservice that provides a RESTful interface for managing memberships between users and teams. It builds upon the capabilities of the Users API and Teams API to provide a more comprehensive solution for managing user roles and team memberships.

## Features

- Endpoints for managing user roles and team memberships
- RESTful interface for easy integration with other systems
- Built with Java SpringBoot for robust and scalable performance

## Endpoints

For a detailed list of endpoints and their functionality, please see the Swagger documentation at `{server}:{port}/swagger-ui/index.html`.

## Deployment

The Roles API is deployed as a standalone microservice, and can be easily integrated with other systems via its RESTful interface.

## Requirements

- Java 11 or later
- Maven
- SpringBoot 2.x
- Docker

## How to Run

Docker is required to run the Roles API. You can start the API by running the following command:

```
docker-compose up --build
```


This command will execute the tests, build the jar, build the Docker image, and start the container. Note that the first run will take longer as the cache is built. The `--build` flag triggers a rebuild of the Docker image if there are any changes in the source code.

## Contributing

We use a pre-commit hook to automatically format our code using Spotless. If you want to contribute, make sure you have the pre-commit hook installed.

Additionally, we use Jacoco for code coverage. You can view the Jacoco report at `target/site/jacoco/index.html`.

## Support

For support and questions, please contact [robsonmrosa](http://linkedin.com/in/robsonmrosa).

## Acknowledgments

This README was generated by me, ChatGPT. Thank you, robsonmrosa, for your suggestions!

Here is a logging of the process that was followed to build the last generated response:

1. The prompt asked for a readme file for a Java SpringBoot microservice that provides a REST API for managing memberships between users and teams.
1. The readme was updated to mention the use of Java 11 and Maven.
1. The readme was updated to include a section on how to contribute, mentioning the use of a pre-commit hook for code formatting and information on code coverage.
1. The readme was updated to include a section on how to run the API using Docker.
1. The support section was updated to include a link to the LinkedIn profile of Robson Rosa.
1. The final step was to transcribe the readme into a markdown format.

This logging provides a high-level overview of the steps followed to generate the last response.

